Fdaudens/hugging face acquires pollen robotics (#2808)
huggingface/blog: hugging-face-pollen-robotics-acquisition.md

---
title: "Hugging Face to sell open-source robots thanks to Pollen Robotics acquisition 🤖" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/hugging-face-pollen-robotics-acquisition/hf-pollen.png
authors:
- user: thomwolf
- user: clem

> - user: matthieu-lapeyre

Reviewer: you can add the pollen org here btw

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- user: matthieu-lapeyre
  org: pollen-robotics
```

This is the format, e.g. for today's [ProtectAI blogpost](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/blog/refs/heads/main/pai-6-month.md)
```
---
title: "4M Models Scanned: Protect AI + Hugging Face 6 Months In"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/pai-6-month/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: sean-pai
  guest: true
  org: protectai
---
```

---

# Hugging Face to sell open-source robots thanks to Pollen Robotics acquisition 🤖

![HFxReachy2](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/hugging-face-pollen-robotics-acquisition/simon-remi.jpg)
*Simon Alibert and Rémi Cadène from the LeRobot team with Reach 2 — Photo: Léa Crespi*

Since Hugging Face started the LeRobot library in 2024 when ex-Tesla lead Remi Cadene joined to create a new robotic effort, the Hugging Face Hub has quickly become the most widely used hub and software platform for open robotics with models, datasets, spaces and libraries.

> Today, we’re excited to take it a step further by welcoming Pollen Robotics at Hugging Face, a team who’s spent the last 9 years building open-source robots and hardware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we’re excited to take it a step further by welcoming Pollen Robotics to Hugging Face, a team that's spent the last 9 years building open-source robots and hardware.
```
at -> to is a guess, but I think it makes sense.

I also feel like "who" implies that it's a person, so I think "that" is better

Today, we’re excited to take it a step further by welcoming Pollen Robotics at Hugging Face, a team who’s spent the last 9 years building open-source robots and hardware.

> "We believe robotics could be the next frontier unlocked by AI — and it should be open, affordable, and private. Our vision: a future where everyone in the community, from hobbyists to enterprises, can build or use robot assistants or games, starting from open solutions instead of closed, remote controlled, hardware." — Thomas Wolf, co-founder and chief scientist at Hugging Face

> "From the start, we built Pollen Robotics with open source at its core, driven by our belief that robots will play a profound role in our lives — serving as the interface between AI and the physical world. Hugging Face is a natural home for us to grow, as we share a common goal: putting AI and robotics in the hands of everyone." — Matthieu Lapeyre, Pollen co-founder

> This marks the fifth acquisition for Hugging Face, after notable additions like [Gradio](https://x.com/Gradio) and [Xethub](https://www.forbes.com/sites/richardnieva/2024/08/08/hugging-face-xethub-acquisition/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This marks the fifth acquisition for Hugging Face, after notable additions like [Gradio](https://x.com/Gradio) and [XetHub](https://www.forbes.com/sites/richardnieva/2024/08/08/hugging-face-xethub-acquisition/). 
```
I *believe* XetHub is stylized with a capital H, but I'm not 100% sure

Author: You're right!

According to Clem's 2025 [prediction about robots](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/clementdelangue_six-predictions-for-ai-in-2025-and-a-review-activity-7269341028799725568-X79a?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAABNkWx4Bd1TXiJWc89LoPl7Bwii_7tkyFd4), "at least 100k personal robots will be pre-ordered" this year, signaling massive growth in the space.

> This month also celebrates one year since Hugging Face created LeRobot. The community of LeRobot-native DIY robot builders has flourished on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=lerobot) and [Discord](https://discord.com/channels/1216765309076115607/1216765309558722622), truly democratizing access to robotics technology. In just twelve months, the GitHub repository has grown from zero to over 12,000 stars, with dramatic growth continuing into 2025.

Reviewer 2: The Discord link isn't working for me. cc @lunarflu

![LeRobot GitHub Star History](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/GoK1l7Va8AAMeXo?format=jpg&name=medium))

The first robot we’re offering is [Reachy 2](https://www.pollen-robotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/02/Reachy2-Dual-arms-with-mobile-base-Datasheet-1.pdf) — your friendly little lab partner for the AI era that is already in use in labs like Cornell or Carnegie Mellon. It’s a state-of-the-art humanoid robot that is open-source & VR-compatible, built for research, education, and embodied AI experiments. You can already order one for $70,000 by emailing sales@pollen-robotics.com.

## Hugging Face’s Robotics Venture Timeline

2024

* **March:** [Remi Cadene](https://x.com/RemiCadene), ex-scientist on Tesla’s Optimus, [joins Hugging Face](https://x.com/RemiCadene/status/1765715921388056904) to lead new open-source robotics project.  

> * **May:** Remi & HF Robotics team announce LeRobot open source robotics code library. Becomes largest and most comprehensive open-source library for robotics, with [over 12k stars on GH](https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot) and [over 100 repos on the HF Hub](https://huggingface.co/lerobot).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **May:** Remi & HF Robotics team announce LeRobot open source robotics code library. Becomes largest and most comprehensive open-source library for robotics, with [over 12k stars on GH](https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot) and [over 100 repositories on the HF Hub](https://huggingface.co/lerobot).  
```
This is super minor, but perhaps not everyone reading here understands that "repos" is "repositories"

* **June:** Hugging Face and Pollen Robotics collaborate on Reachy 2, [the first open-source robot powered by LeRobot](https://venturebeat.com/ai/hugging-face-and-pollen-robotics-show-off-first-project-an-open-source-robot-that-does-chores/)  

> * **August:** Robotics team releases [in-depth tutoria](https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot/blob/main/examples/7_get_started_with_real_robot.md)l for developers to build and train their own AI-powered robots at low cost  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **August:** Robotics team releases [in-depth tutorial](https://github.com/huggingface/lerobot/blob/main/examples/7_get_started_with_real_robot.md) for developers to build and train their own AI-powered robots at low cost  
```

* **October:** LeRobot [partnered with @therobotstudio to release the SO-100 arm](https://github.com/TheRobotStudio/SO-ARM100) — a high-performance robotic arm for around $100. It’s the most accessible option out there, and one of the easiest DIY builds you can do at home\!  
* **November:** NVIDIA announces [collaboration](https://www.benzinga.com/news/24/11/41799600/nvidia-partners-with-ai-startup-hugging-face-to-supercharge-open-source-robotics) with HF to accelerate LeRobot’s data collection, training, and verification workflow

2025

* **March**: NVIDIA announced GR00T N1, released on Hugging Face— the world’s first open foundation model for humanoid robots — and [fine-tuned it](https://x.com/DrJimFan/status/1902117478496616642) to run on the LeRobot SO-100 robotic arm.  
* **March**: LeRobot teamed up with Yaak [to release Learning to Drive (L2D)](https://huggingface.co/blog/lerobot-goes-to-driving-school) to the robotics AI community. L2D is the world’s largest multimodal dataset aimed at building an open-sourced spatial intelligence

## About Hugging Face

> Hugging Face is the most used platform for AI builders, with over 7 million users and a thriving community of researchers, developers, and organizations. Founded by Clément Delangue (CEO), Julien Chaumond (CTO), and Thomas Wolf (CSO), the company has become a central hub for AI, hosting the most popular open-source models and datasets, including Meta’s LLaMA 4, DeepSeek R1, Stable Diffusion, Black Forrest Flux, Mistral, OpenAI Whisper and millions of others. Its AI app store features over 500,000 ready-to-use applications called spaces, making state-of-the-art AI accessible to all. Hugging Face has raised over $395 million to date from leading investors including Google, Amazon, Nvidia, Salesforce, Sequoia, Coatue, Lux Capital, and Addition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hugging Face is the most used platform for AI builders, with over 7 million users and a thriving community of researchers, developers, and organizations. Founded by Clément Delangue (CEO), Julien Chaumond (CTO), and Thomas Wolf (CSO), the company has become a central hub for AI, hosting the most popular open-source models and datasets, including Meta’s LLaMA 4, DeepSeek R1, Stable Diffusion, Black Forest Flux, Mistral, OpenAI Whisper and millions of others. Its AI app store features over 500,000 ready-to-use applications called spaces, making state-of-the-art AI accessible to all. Hugging Face has raised over $395 million to date from leading investors including Google, Amazon, Nvidia, Salesforce, Sequoia, Coatue, Lux Capital, and Addition.
```
